1. Interpolation search is a variant of binary search that works better for uniformly distributed and sorted arrays. It has a faster average-case time complexity, this is done by reducing unnecessary comparisons by estimation of the probable position of the target unlike binary search that starts from the middle. For this reason, it requires less steps in larger data sets with even distribution of values, therefore resulting in better performance.

2. The performance will significantly be affected if the data does not follow a uniform distribution. This is because           interpolation search relies on the position of the target to be probable based on the uniform distribution and will lead to an inaccurate result if fails to follow the searching formula. For example, an array with a large gap [1,2,3,4,100,200,300,400] would lead to an inaccurate result due to gap in numbers.

3. To modify the interpolation search to follow a different distribution, 
the Probe Position Formula (pos) = low + ((x-arr[low]) * (high - low))/ arr[high] - arr[low] must be modified to reflect the correct distribution of data. For example, if the data is exponential then log would be added to the formula to reflect the distribution change.

4. Linear search becomes the only option when the data is unsorted, since binary, and interpolation search requires sorted data. This is because binary splits the arrays into halves and interpolation estimates the position based on the distribution. Neither of these methods would make sense if the data provided is unsorted. Linked lists is another example of when to use linear search. In linked lists traversing is required to access the middle element and the other searching methods require direct access to the indices of the element.

5. As mentioned above situations in question 4. Linear search will outperform the other two methods when the data is unsorted. Not only because they require sorted data but using the other two methods will require transforming that unsorted data into sorted data. This adds extra time complexity to the mix making them less viable options. Also, in smaller datasets or if the target is near the beginning linear search could be more beneficial because a simple loop may find the target with less comparisons and reduced computations. Mentioned above in question 4, linked lists would outperform the other search methods due to having to traverse through the list.

6. To improve binary and interpolation search there is a few methods that could be implemented. For one, a hybrid searching could be done to solve some issues. Such as in a jump search to help with sorted data, unnecessary comparisons may be negated compared to a linear search. this is done by dividing the data into blocks, then jumping to the block that holds the target and finishing with a linear search to acquire the target. For unsorted data, Sorting the data before applying binary or interpolation search may also help solve the issue. Adaptive binary searches could also be used for non-uniform distribution. This is done by adjusting the midpoint. 